docs/docs/databases/clickhouse/getting-started/cloud.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Hasura Cloud
sidebar_position: 1
description: Hasura Cloud for ClickHouse
keywords:
  - hasura
  - docs
  - databases
  - clickhouse
  - hasura cloud
---

import Thumbnail from '@site/src/components/Thumbnail';

# Get Started with Hasura Cloud & ClickHouse

## Try it out

:::info Connecting ClickHouse to Hasura

To connect ClickHouse to Hasura, you'll need to take advantage of
[Hasura Data Connectors](/databases/data-connectors/index.mdx). You can deploy any custom data connector agent to Hasura
Cloud using our CLI plugin. For more information, refer to the [docs](/hasura-cli/connector-plugin/index.mdx).

If you're curious what other connectors are available, check out our [NDC Hub](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-hub).

:::

### Step 1: Create an account on Hasura Cloud and create a new Hasura Project

Navigate to
[cloud.hasura.io](https://cloud.hasura.io/signup/?pg=docs&plcmt=body&cta=navigate-to-cloud-hasura-io&tech=default&skip_onboarding=true),
and create a new Hasura Cloud account.

Once you create a project on Hasura Cloud, hit the "Launch Console" button to open the Hasura Console for your project.

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/databases/data-connector/create-project.png"
  alt="Connect new or existing database"
  width="1000px"
/>

### Step 2: Deploy a data connector agent

We'll use the Hasura CLI to deploy a custom data connector agent to Hasura Cloud. Below, we're using the `create`
command and naming our connector `clickhouse-connector:v1`. We're also passing in the GitHub repo URL for the connector
agent using the `--github-repo-url` flag:

```bash
hasura connector create clickhouse-connector:v1 --github-repo-url https://github.com/hasura/clickhouse_gdc_v2/tree/main
```

We can check on the progress of the deployment using the `status` command:

```bash
hasura connector status clickhouse-connector:v1
```

Once the `DONE` status is returned, we can grab the URL for our data connector agent using the `list` command:

```bash
hasura connector list
```

This will return a list of all the custom data connector agents you own. **The second value returned is the URL which
we'll use in the next step; copy it to your clipboard.**

### Step 3: Add the data connector agent to your Hasura Cloud project

In your Cloud project, navigate to the `Data` tab and click `Manage` in the left-hand sidebar.

At the bottom of the screen, you'll see an expandable section titled `Data Connector Agents`.

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/databases/clickhouse/add-agent.png"
  alt="Add the agent for a ClickHouse database"
  width="1000px"
/>

Click this and scroll down to `Add Agent`.

Name this agent `clickhouse` and paste the URL you copied from the CLI into the `URL` field and click `Connect`.

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/databases/clickhouse/configure-agent.png"
  alt="Add the agent for a ClickHouse database"
  width="1000px"
/>

### Step 4: Add your ClickHouse database as a source to Hasura

Head to the `Data > Manage databases` section on the Console to add your ClickHouse database as a source to Hasura.

:::info Make sure your ClickHouse service is reachable by Hasura Cloud:

1.  **Allow public connections or
    [whitelist the Hasura Cloud IP](/hasura-cloud/projects/create.mdx#cloud-projects-create-allow-nat-ip) on your
    [Clickhouse firewall](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/manage/security/ip-access-list#create-or-modify-an-ip-access-list):**
    This is good for testing and will allow you to quickly try out Hasura with your database!
2.  **VPC peering:** VPC peering and private network access is available on Hasura Cloud paid tiers and is recommended
    for production. Get in touch with us if you'd like to try this out against your existing databases.

:::

#### Step 4.1: Begin by clicking `Connect Database`

<Thumbnail src="/img/databases/data-connector/manage-databases.png" alt="Manage databases" width="1000px" />

#### Step 4.2: Next, choose the `Clickhouse` driver

<Thumbnail src="/img/databases/clickhouse/choose-clickhouse.png" alt="temp" width="1000px" />

#### Step 4.3: Enter your ClickHouse JDBC Connection string

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/databases/clickhouse/database-config.png"
  alt="Setting the ClickHouse connection details."
  width="1000px"
/>

You can get create your connection URL by logging in to ClickHouse and selecting `Connect -> View connection string` for the
database to which you want to connect.

Once you add the ClickHouse service, you will find it listed as an available database on the sidebar.

:::info Setting the connection string as an environment variable

It's generally accepted that setting the password as an environment variable is a better practice as it's more secure
and prevents any secrets from being exposed in your instance's metadata.

An example would be to create a new
[environment variable](/deployment/graphql-engine-flags/index.mdx#using-environment-variables) called
`CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD` and set it equal to your ClickHouse password.

Then, export the metadata - in JSON form - using the Console's `Settings` page or by making a call using the
[metadata API](api-reference/metadata-api/manage-metadata.mdx#metadata-export-metadata) and add the following key-value
pair to the `metadata.json`'s `configuration` object:

```json
"template": "{\"url\": \"your_clickhouse_url_here\", \"user\": \"your_clickhouse_user\", \"password\": \"{{getEnvironmentVariable(\"CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD\")}}\", \"tables\": null}"
```

You can then apply the metadata to your instance by either using the Console's `Settings` page or by making a call using
the [metadata API](api-reference/metadata-api/manage-metadata.mdx#metadata-apply-metadata).

:::

### Step 5: Track existing tables

To query your ClickHouse service using Hasura, you'll need to have existing tables to select. Those tables will appear
under the database as shown below:

<Thumbnail src="/img/databases/clickhouse/track-tables-1.png" alt="Tracking tables." width="1000px" />

You can select all or select individual tables to track. Click `Track Selected` for Hasura to introspect them and create
the corresponding GraphQL schema.

<Thumbnail src="/img/databases/clickhouse/track-tables-2.png" alt="Tracking tables selected." width="1000px" />

### Step 6: Try out a GraphQL query

Head to the `API` tab in the Console and try running a GraphQL query! Use the explorer sidebar on GraphiQL to get help in
creating a GraphQL query.

<Thumbnail src="/img/databases/clickhouse/query.png" alt="Try a GraphQL query" width="1000px" />

## Keep up to date

:::info Note

Currently, Hasura supports read-only queries, relationships, and permissions on ClickHouse. Column comparison operators
are not supported with permissions on ClickHouse.

:::

If you'd like to stay informed about the status of ClickHouse support, subscribe to our newsletter and join our discord!

- [https://hasura.io/newsletter/](https://hasura.io/newsletter/)
- [https://discord.com/invite/hasura](https://discord.com/invite/hasura)

Commit message:

docs: add admonition to escape special characters in JDBC URLs
PR-URL: https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine-mono/pull/10212
GitOrigin-RevId: 24c57dd4b9d9d73c224962828ff846518a18853a

docs/docs/databases/clickhouse/getting-started/cloud.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Hasura Cloud
sidebar_position: 1
description: Hasura Cloud for ClickHouse
keywords:
  - hasura
  - docs
  - databases
  - clickhouse
  - hasura cloud
---

import Thumbnail from '@site/src/components/Thumbnail';

# Get Started with Hasura Cloud & ClickHouse

## Try it out

:::info Connecting ClickHouse to Hasura

To connect ClickHouse to Hasura, you'll need to take advantage of
[Hasura Data Connectors](/databases/data-connectors/index.mdx). You can deploy any custom data connector agent to Hasura
Cloud using our CLI plugin. For more information, refer to the [docs](/hasura-cli/connector-plugin/index.mdx).

If you're curious what other connectors are available, check out our [NDC Hub](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-hub).

:::

### Step 1: Create an account on Hasura Cloud and create a new Hasura Project

Navigate to
[cloud.hasura.io](https://cloud.hasura.io/signup/?pg=docs&plcmt=body&cta=navigate-to-cloud-hasura-io&tech=default&skip_onboarding=true),
and create a new Hasura Cloud account.

Once you create a project on Hasura Cloud, hit the "Launch Console" button to open the Hasura Console for your project.

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/databases/data-connector/create-project.png"
  alt="Connect new or existing database"
  width="1000px"
/>

### Step 2: Deploy a data connector agent

We'll use the Hasura CLI to deploy a custom data connector agent to Hasura Cloud. Below, we're using the `create`
command and naming our connector `clickhouse-connector:v1`. We're also passing in the GitHub repo URL for the connector
agent using the `--github-repo-url` flag:

```bash
hasura connector create clickhouse-connector:v1 --github-repo-url https://github.com/hasura/clickhouse_gdc_v2/tree/main
```

We can check on the progress of the deployment using the `status` command:

```bash
hasura connector status clickhouse-connector:v1
```

Once the `DONE` status is returned, we can grab the URL for our data connector agent using the `list` command:

```bash
hasura connector list
```

This will return a list of all the custom data connector agents you own. **The second value returned is the URL which
we'll use in the next step; copy it to your clipboard.**

### Step 3: Add the data connector agent to your Hasura Cloud project

In your Cloud project, navigate to the `Data` tab and click `Manage` in the left-hand sidebar.

At the bottom of the screen, you'll see an expandable section titled `Data Connector Agents`.

<Thumbnail src="/img/databases/clickhouse/add-agent.png" alt="Add the agent for a ClickHouse database" width="1000px" />

Click this and scroll down to `Add Agent`.

Name this agent `clickhouse` and paste the URL you copied from the CLI into the `URL` field and click `Connect`.

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/databases/clickhouse/configure-agent.png"
  alt="Add the agent for a ClickHouse database"
  width="1000px"
/>

### Step 4: Add your ClickHouse database as a source to Hasura

Head to the `Data > Manage databases` section on the Console to add your ClickHouse database as a source to Hasura.

:::info Make sure your ClickHouse service is reachable by Hasura Cloud:

1.  **Allow public connections or
    [whitelist the Hasura Cloud IP](/hasura-cloud/projects/create.mdx#cloud-projects-create-allow-nat-ip) on your
    [Clickhouse firewall](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/manage/security/ip-access-list#create-or-modify-an-ip-access-list):**
    This is good for testing and will allow you to quickly try out Hasura with your database!
2.  **VPC peering:** VPC peering and private network access is available on Hasura Cloud paid tiers and is recommended
    for production. Get in touch with us if you'd like to try this out against your existing databases.

:::

#### Step 4.1: Begin by clicking `Connect Database`

<Thumbnail src="/img/databases/data-connector/manage-databases.png" alt="Manage databases" width="1000px" />

#### Step 4.2: Next, choose the `Clickhouse` driver

<Thumbnail src="/img/databases/clickhouse/choose-clickhouse.png" alt="temp" width="1000px" />

#### Step 4.3: Enter your ClickHouse JDBC Connection string

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/databases/clickhouse/database-config.png"
  alt="Setting the ClickHouse connection details."
  width="1000px"
/>

You can get create your connection URL by logging in to ClickHouse and selecting `Connect -> View connection string` for
the database to which you want to connect.

Once you add the ClickHouse service, you will find it listed as an available database on the sidebar.

:::info Setting the connection string as an environment variable

It's generally accepted that setting the password as an environment variable is a better practice as it's more secure
and prevents any secrets from being exposed in your instance's metadata.

An example would be to create a new
[environment variable](/deployment/graphql-engine-flags/index.mdx#using-environment-variables) called
`CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD` and set it equal to your ClickHouse password.

Then, export the metadata - in JSON form - using the Console's `Settings` page or by making a call using the
[metadata API](api-reference/metadata-api/manage-metadata.mdx#metadata-export-metadata) and add the following key-value
pair to the `metadata.json`'s `configuration` object:

```json
"template": "{\"url\": \"your_clickhouse_url_here\", \"user\": \"your_clickhouse_user\", \"password\": \"{{getEnvironmentVariable(\"CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD\")}}\", \"tables\": null}"
```

You can then apply the metadata to your instance by either using the Console's `Settings` page or by making a call using
the [metadata API](api-reference/metadata-api/manage-metadata.mdx#metadata-apply-metadata).

:::

:::info Ensure your password escapes special characters

Due to the potential variations in drivers, it's crucial to escape special characters used in the password of the
connection string. These include `{ } % & #`. To escape a character, use the appropriate escape sequence based on your
database's driver's documentation.

:::

### Step 5: Track existing tables

To query your ClickHouse service using Hasura, you'll need to have existing tables to select. Those tables will appear
under the database as shown below:

<Thumbnail src="/img/databases/clickhouse/track-tables-1.png" alt="Tracking tables." width="1000px" />

You can select all or select individual tables to track. Click `Track Selected` for Hasura to introspect them and create
the corresponding GraphQL schema.

<Thumbnail src="/img/databases/clickhouse/track-tables-2.png" alt="Tracking tables selected." width="1000px" />

### Step 6: Try out a GraphQL query

Head to the `API` tab in the Console and try running a GraphQL query! Use the explorer sidebar on GraphiQL to get help
in creating a GraphQL query.

<Thumbnail src="/img/databases/clickhouse/query.png" alt="Try a GraphQL query" width="1000px" />

## Keep up to date

:::info Note

Currently, Hasura supports read-only queries, relationships, and permissions on ClickHouse. Column comparison operators
are not supported with permissions on ClickHouse.

:::

If you'd like to stay informed about the status of ClickHouse support, subscribe to our newsletter and join our discord!

- [https://hasura.io/newsletter/](https://hasura.io/newsletter/)
- [https://discord.com/invite/hasura](https://discord.com/invite/hasura)
