docs/docs/event-triggers/recipes/index.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Recipes: Event Triggers'
description: Succinct, tested, and reusable code recipes for common use cases in Hasura.
keywords:
  - hasura
  - docs
  - recipes
  - event triggers
  - event-driven
  - automated
slug: index
---

# Recipes

## Introduction

This section contains recipes for common use cases of **Event Triggers**. Each recipe is a succinct, tested, and
reusable piece of code that can be used to solve a common use case. However, these recipes are not exhaustive and you
can use them as a starting point to build your own custom logic.

### Moderate user content with ChatGPT

A common use case for integrating AI-powered bots into applications is to take care of mundane tasks like moderating
user content. This can be done with specialized sentiment analysis tool or a general large language model like [ChatGPT](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/gpt).  This recipe shows how to use ChatGPT to moderate reviews
submitted by users. We'll build a webhook that parses Event Trigger data, sends it to ChatGPT, and then performs
operations on our data based on the results. [Check it out](/event-triggers/recipes/moderate-user-content-with-gpt.mdx)!

Commit message:

Docs: Event Triggers Recipe for Product Description ChatGPT SEO
PR-URL: https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine-mono/pull/10189
Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
GitOrigin-RevId: bfca67ca4ce8124eebd75ff44030aee8440616e1

docs/docs/event-triggers/recipes/index.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Recipes: Event Triggers'
description: Succinct, tested, and reusable code recipes for common use cases in Hasura.
keywords:
  - hasura
  - docs
  - recipes
  - event triggers
  - event-driven
  - automated
slug: index
---

# Recipes

## Introduction

This section contains recipes for common use cases of **Event Triggers**. Each recipe is a succinct, tested, and
reusable piece of code that can be used to solve a common use case. However, these recipes are not exhaustive and you
can use them as a starting point to build your own custom logic.

### Moderate user content with ChatGPT

A common use case for integrating AI-powered bots into applications is to take care of mundane tasks like moderating
user content. This can be done with specialized sentiment analysis tool or a general large language model like
[ChatGPT](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/gpt).  This recipe shows how to use ChatGPT to moderate reviews
submitted by users. We'll build a webhook that parses Event Trigger data, sends it to ChatGPT, and then performs
operations on our data based on the results. [Check it out](/event-triggers/recipes/moderate-user-content-with-gpt.mdx)!

### Optimize a product's description for SEO

Enhancing the SEO quality of product descriptions is important for e-commerce platforms. This guide illustrates how to
employ Hasura's Event Triggers to automatically invoke a webhook whenever a new product is added. The webhook interacts
with the [OpenAI ChatGPT API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/gpt) to improve the product's description for
better SEO performance. By using this technique to optimize or check human entered content in this way, you can
improve the quality of your content and reduce the amount of time spent on manual review. Check out this
[recipe here](/event-triggers/recipes/product-description-chatgpt-seo.mdx).
