docs/docs/subscriptions/ms-sql-server/index.mdx, before:

---
slug: index
description: Manage subscriptions on MS SQL Server with Hasura
keywords:
  - hasura
  - docs
  - ms sql server
  - subscription
---

# MS SQL Server: GraphQL Subscriptions

## Introduction

A GraphQL subscription is essentially a query where the client receives an update whenever the value of any field
changes upstream.

Subscriptions are supported for all kinds of queries. All the concepts of [queries](/queries/ms-sql-server/index.mdx)
hold true for subscriptions as well.

## Implementation

The Hasura GraphQL Engine subscriptions are actually **live queries**, i.e. a subscription will return the latest result
of the query being made and not necessarily all the individual events leading up to the result. By default, updates are
delivered to clients every **1 sec**.

<!--
.. TODO: DB COMPATIBILITY
  See more details on :ref:`subscriptions execution and performance <ms_sql_server_subscriptions_execution_and_performance>`.
-->

## Convert a query to a subscription

You can turn any query into a subscription by simply replacing `query` with `subscription` as the operation type.

:::info Caveat

Hasura follows the [GraphQL spec](https://graphql.github.io/graphql-spec/June2018/#sec-Single-root-field) which allows
for only one root field in a subscription.

:::

## Use cases

- [Subscribe to the latest value of a particular field](/subscriptions/ms-sql-server/use-cases.mdx#ms-sql-server-subscribe-field)
- [Subscribe to changes to a table’s entries](/subscriptions/ms-sql-server/use-cases.mdx#ms-sql-server-subscribe-table)
- [Subscribe to the latest value of some derived data](/subscriptions/ms-sql-server/use-cases.mdx#ms-sql-server-subscribe-derived)

## Communication protocol

Hasura GraphQL Engine uses the
[GraphQL over WebSocket Protocol](https://github.com/apollographql/subscriptions-transport-ws/blob/master/PROTOCOL.md)
by the [apollographql/subscriptions-transport-ws](https://github.com/apollographql/subscriptions-transport-ws) library
and the [GraphQL over WebSocket Protocol](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-ws/blob/master/PROTOCOL.md) by the
[graphql-ws](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-ws) library for sending and receiving events. The GraphQL Engine uses
the `Sec-WebSocket-Protocol` header to determine the communication protocol that'll be used. By default, the GraphQL
engine will use the `apollographql/subscriptions-transport-ws` protocol.

:::info Setting headers for subscriptions with Apollo client

If you are using Apollo Client, headers can be passed to a subscription by setting `connectionParams` while
[creating the wsLink](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/subscriptions/#client-setup):

```javascript {6-8}
// Create a WebSocket link:
const wsLink = new WebSocketLink({
  uri: `<graphql-endpoint>`,
  options: {
    reconnect: true,
    connectionParams: {
      headers: {headers-object}
    }
  }
});
```

See [this](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/subscriptions/#authentication-over-websocket) for more info on
using `connectionParams`.

:::

## Cookies and WebSockets

The Hasura GraphQL Engine will read cookies sent by the browser when initiating a WebSocket connection. The browser will
send the cookie only if it is a secure cookie (`secure` flag in the cookie) and if the cookie has a `HttpOnly` flag.

Hasura will read this cookie and use it as headers when resolving authorization (i.e. when resolving the auth webhook).

### Cookies, WebSockets and CORS

As browsers don't enforce Same Origin Policy (SOP) for websockets, the Hasura server enforces the CORS rules when
accepting the websocket connection.

It uses the provided CORS configuration (as per
[Configure Cors](/deployment/graphql-engine-flags/config-examples.mdx#configure-cors)).

1.  When it is `*`, the cookie is read and the CORS check is not enforced.
2.  When there are explicit domains, the cookie will only be read if the request originates from one of the listed
    domains.
3.  If CORS is disabled, the default behavior is that the cookie won't be read (because of potential security issues).
    To override the behavior, you can use the flag `--ws-read-cookie` or the environment variable
    `HASURA_GRAPHQL_WS_READ_COOKIE`. See
    [GraphQL Engine server config reference](/deployment/graphql-engine-flags/reference.mdx) for the setting.

<!-- Execution and performance <execution-and-performance> -->

Commit message:

Docs: Clarify multiple subscriptions. Specifically for AI understanding.
PR-URL: https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine-mono/pull/10162
GitOrigin-RevId: 05351d7b369f5a7b52c5287fdac426885219da9f

docs/docs/subscriptions/ms-sql-server/index.mdx, after:

---
slug: index
description: Manage subscriptions on MS SQL Server with Hasura
keywords:
  - hasura
  - docs
  - ms sql server
  - subscription
---

# MS SQL Server: GraphQL Subscriptions

## Introduction

A GraphQL subscription is essentially a query where the client receives an update whenever the value of any field
changes upstream.

Subscriptions are supported for all kinds of queries. All the concepts of [queries](/queries/ms-sql-server/index.mdx)
hold true for subscriptions as well.

## Implementation

The Hasura GraphQL Engine subscriptions are actually **live queries**, i.e. a subscription will return the latest result
of the query being made and not necessarily all the individual events leading up to the result. By default, updates are
delivered to clients every **1 sec**.

<!--
.. TODO: DB COMPATIBILITY
  See more details on :ref:`subscriptions execution and performance <ms_sql_server_subscriptions_execution_and_performance>`.
-->

## Convert a query to a subscription

You can turn any query into a subscription by simply replacing `query` with `subscription` as the operation type.

:::info Single subscription in each query caveat

Hasura follows the [GraphQL spec](https://graphql.github.io/graphql-spec/June2018/#sec-Single-root-field) which allows
for only one root field in a subscription. You also cannot execute multiple separate subscriptions in one query. To
have multiple subscriptions running at the same time they must be in separate queries.

:::

## Use cases

- [Subscribe to the latest value of a particular field](/subscriptions/ms-sql-server/use-cases.mdx#ms-sql-server-subscribe-field)
- [Subscribe to changes to a table’s entries](/subscriptions/ms-sql-server/use-cases.mdx#ms-sql-server-subscribe-table)
- [Subscribe to the latest value of some derived data](/subscriptions/ms-sql-server/use-cases.mdx#ms-sql-server-subscribe-derived)

## Communication protocol

Hasura GraphQL Engine uses the
[GraphQL over WebSocket Protocol](https://github.com/apollographql/subscriptions-transport-ws/blob/master/PROTOCOL.md)
by the [apollographql/subscriptions-transport-ws](https://github.com/apollographql/subscriptions-transport-ws) library
and the [GraphQL over WebSocket Protocol](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-ws/blob/master/PROTOCOL.md) by the
[graphql-ws](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-ws) library for sending and receiving events. The GraphQL Engine uses
the `Sec-WebSocket-Protocol` header to determine the communication protocol that'll be used. By default, the GraphQL
engine will use the `apollographql/subscriptions-transport-ws` protocol.

:::info Setting headers for subscriptions with Apollo client

If you are using Apollo Client, headers can be passed to a subscription by setting `connectionParams` while
[creating the wsLink](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/subscriptions/#client-setup):

```javascript {6-8}
// Create a WebSocket link:
const wsLink = new WebSocketLink({
  uri: `<graphql-endpoint>`,
  options: {
    reconnect: true,
    connectionParams: {
      headers: {headers-object}
    }
  }
});
```

See [this](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/subscriptions/#authentication-over-websocket) for more info on
using `connectionParams`.

:::

## Cookies and WebSockets

The Hasura GraphQL Engine will read cookies sent by the browser when initiating a WebSocket connection. The browser will
send the cookie only if it is a secure cookie (`secure` flag in the cookie) and if the cookie has a `HttpOnly` flag.

Hasura will read this cookie and use it as headers when resolving authorization (i.e. when resolving the auth webhook).

### Cookies, WebSockets and CORS

As browsers don't enforce Same Origin Policy (SOP) for websockets, the Hasura server enforces the CORS rules when
accepting the websocket connection.

It uses the provided CORS configuration (as per
[Configure Cors](/deployment/graphql-engine-flags/config-examples.mdx#configure-cors)).

1.  When it is `*`, the cookie is read and the CORS check is not enforced.
2.  When there are explicit domains, the cookie will only be read if the request originates from one of the listed
    domains.
3.  If CORS is disabled, the default behavior is that the cookie won't be read (because of potential security issues).
    To override the behavior, you can use the flag `--ws-read-cookie` or the environment variable
    `HASURA_GRAPHQL_WS_READ_COOKIE`. See
    [GraphQL Engine server config reference](/deployment/graphql-engine-flags/reference.mdx) for the setting.

<!-- Execution and performance <execution-and-performance> -->
