docs/docs/databases/oracle/docker.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Docker
description: Getting Started with Docker for Hasura Enterprise Edition
title: 'Oracle: Getting Started with Docker'
keywords:
  - hasura
  - docs
  - enterprise
  - docker
  - Oracle
sidebar_position: 1
---

import Thumbnail from '@site/src/components/Thumbnail';
import LatestRelease from '@site/src/components/LatestRelease';
import ProductBadge from '@site/src/components/ProductBadge';

# Getting Started with Hasura and Oracle in Docker

<div className="badge-container">
  <ProductBadge self />
</div>

## Introduction

This guide will help you get set up with the [Enterprise Edition](/enterprise/overview.mdx) of Hasura GraphQL Engine
with our Oracle integration using Docker Compose. This is the easiest way to set up Hasura Enterprise Edition and the
Oracle GraphQL Data Connector.

:::tip Supported versions

1.  Hasura GraphQL Engine `v2.24.0` onwards
2.  Hasura supports most databases with standard implementations of **Oracle 18.0 and higher** including Amazon RDS.

:::

:::tip Supported features

Hasura currently supports queries, mutations (INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE), table relationships, remote relationships and
permissions on Oracle.

Note that Hasura doesn't yet support the ability to modify the database schema for Oracle, so the database you connect
to should already contain tables and data. You should also ideally have access to it outside of Hasura to modify the
schema.

:::

## Deploying Hasura Enterprise with Docker

### Prerequisites

This tutorial assumes that the following prerequisites have been met:

- You have [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
  working on your machine.
- You have access to a Oracle database for which you would like to create an API.

### Step 1: Get the Docker Compose file

The [install manifests directory](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/tree/master/install-manifests) contains all
installation manifests required to deploy Hasura anywhere. The Docker Compose manifest also contains a Postgres database
in order to store the Hasura metadata and a Redis instance for caching.

```bash
# in a new directory run
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hasura/graphql-engine/master/install-manifests/enterprise/oracle/docker-compose.yaml
# or run
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hasura/graphql-engine/master/install-manifests/enterprise/oracle/docker-compose.yaml
```

### Step 2: Set the Hasura Enterprise Edition license key and the admin secret

Edit the downloaded docker-compose.yaml and set the license key and admin secret. If you've been provided a license key
by the Hasura team, you can enter it according to the directions below.

```yaml {5-6}
---
graphql-engine:
  image: hasura/graphql-engine:v2.24.0
  environment:
    HASURA_GRAPHQL_EE_LICENSE_KEY: <your_license_key>
    HASURA_GRAPHQL_ADMIN_SECRET: <your_secret_key>
```

An [admin secret key](/deployment/securing-graphql-endpoint.mdx) is required to make sure that your GraphQL endpoint and
the Hasura Console are not publicly accessible.

:::info I don't have a license key

If you don't already have a license key and are interested in trying out Hasura Enterprise Edition with Oracle, you can
start a free 30-day trial. Leave the `HASURA_GRAPHQL_EE_LICENSE_KEY` environment variable commented out we'll return to
this in Step 4.

:::

:::caution Secure the admin secret

The `HASURA_GRAPHQL_ADMIN_SECRET` should never be passed from the client to the Hasura GraphQL Engine as it would give
the client full admin rights to your Hasura instance. See [Authentication & Authorization](/auth/overview.mdx) for
information on setting up auth in Hasura.

:::

### Step 3: Run Hasura GraphQL Engine

The following command will create and run the containers in the Docker Compose manifest:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

Check that the containers are running:

```bash
docker ps

CONTAINER ID IMAGE                              ... CREATED STATUS PORTS          ...
097f58433a2b hasura/graphql-engine              ... 1m ago  Up 1m  8080->8080/tcp ...
b0b1aac0508d postgres                           ... 1m ago  Up 1m  5432/tcp ...
3a29aa348999 redis:7                            ... 1m ago  Up 1m  6379/tcp ...
7b5b2ee70ece hasura/graphql-data-connector      ... 1m ago  Up 1m  5005/tcp ..
```

### Step 4: Load the Hasura Console

Open the Hasura Console by navigating to `http://localhost:8080/console`. You will need to input your admin secret key
as set in your Docker Compose file to log in.

:::info 30-day free trial

If you don't already have a license key, you can start a 30-day free trial by clicking the `ENTERPRISE` button in the
top navigation. You can read more details [here](/enterprise/try-hasura-enterprise-edition.mdx).

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/enterprise/Trials_Register_Button.png"
  alt="Enterprise Edition Trial register button"
  width="1146px"
/>

:::

### Step 5: Connect to a Oracle database

From the Console, click the `Data` tab:

<Thumbnail src="/img/getting-started/connect-db-console.png" alt="Connect database" width="1000px" />

Select the Oracle data source driver, enter in a display name for the database and set the JDBC Connection URL for your
Oracle instance.

The JDBC connection URL should look like this:

```yaml {4-6}
jdbc:oracle:thin:<username>/<password>@<hostname>:<port>:<service-name>
```

For example:

```yaml {4-6}
jdbc:oracle:thin:myuser/mypassword@myhost.mycompany.com:oracletest # assuming the default port 1521
jdbc:oracle:thin:myuser/mypassword@myhost.mycompany.com:1234:oracletest # assuming Oracle is running on port 1234
```

Click `Connect Database`.

### Step 6: Track tables and run GraphQL API queries

Now that you have successfully connected your Oracle database to Hasura, you can track tables and use Hasura to
automatically build a full-featured GraphQL API for it.

### Step 7 (optional): Use managed PostgreSQL and Redis instances

The Hasura Enterprise Edition Docker compose files come with containerized open-source versions of PostgreSQL and Redis.

We highly recommend using managed PostgreSQL and Redis instances especially when running in production.

To switch to using your PostgreSQL or Redis instances, set the following environment variables:

```yaml {4-6}
HASURA_GRAPHQL_METADATA_DATABASE_URL HASURA_GRAPHQL_REDIS_URL HASURA_GRAPHQL_RATE_LIMIT_REDIS_URL
```

For example:

```yaml {5-7}
---
graphql-engine:
  image: hasura/graphql-engine:v2.24.0
  environment:
    HASURA_GRAPHQL_METADATA_DATABASE_URL: postgres://postgres:postgrespassword@postgres:5432/postgres
    HASURA_GRAPHQL_REDIS_URL: 'redis://redis:6379'
    HASURA_GRAPHQL_RATE_LIMIT_REDIS_URL: 'redis://redis:6379'
```

### Resources

- [Hasura GraphQL Engine logs](/deployment/logging.mdx) for more details on log types.
- [Docker logs](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/logging) for more details on logging in Docker.

Commit message:

docs: add admonition to escape special characters in JDBC URLs
PR-URL: https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine-mono/pull/10212
GitOrigin-RevId: 24c57dd4b9d9d73c224962828ff846518a18853a

docs/docs/databases/oracle/docker.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Docker
description: Getting Started with Docker for Hasura Enterprise Edition
title: 'Oracle: Getting Started with Docker'
keywords:
  - hasura
  - docs
  - enterprise
  - docker
  - Oracle
sidebar_position: 1
---

import Thumbnail from '@site/src/components/Thumbnail';
import LatestRelease from '@site/src/components/LatestRelease';
import ProductBadge from '@site/src/components/ProductBadge';

# Getting Started with Hasura and Oracle in Docker

<div className="badge-container">
  <ProductBadge self />
</div>

## Introduction

This guide will help you get set up with the [Enterprise Edition](/enterprise/overview.mdx) of Hasura GraphQL Engine
with our Oracle integration using Docker Compose. This is the easiest way to set up Hasura Enterprise Edition and the
Oracle GraphQL Data Connector.

:::tip Supported versions

1.  Hasura GraphQL Engine `v2.24.0` onwards
2.  Hasura supports most databases with standard implementations of **Oracle 18.0 and higher** including Amazon RDS.

:::

:::tip Supported features

Hasura currently supports queries, mutations (INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE), table relationships, remote relationships and
permissions on Oracle.

Note that Hasura doesn't yet support the ability to modify the database schema for Oracle, so the database you connect
to should already contain tables and data. You should also ideally have access to it outside of Hasura to modify the
schema.

:::

## Deploying Hasura Enterprise with Docker

### Prerequisites

This tutorial assumes that the following prerequisites have been met:

- You have [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
  working on your machine.
- You have access to a Oracle database for which you would like to create an API.

### Step 1: Get the Docker Compose file

The [install manifests directory](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/tree/master/install-manifests) contains all
installation manifests required to deploy Hasura anywhere. The Docker Compose manifest also contains a Postgres database
in order to store the Hasura metadata and a Redis instance for caching.

```bash
# in a new directory run
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hasura/graphql-engine/master/install-manifests/enterprise/oracle/docker-compose.yaml
# or run
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hasura/graphql-engine/master/install-manifests/enterprise/oracle/docker-compose.yaml
```

### Step 2: Set the Hasura Enterprise Edition license key and the admin secret

Edit the downloaded docker-compose.yaml and set the license key and admin secret. If you've been provided a license key
by the Hasura team, you can enter it according to the directions below.

```yaml {5-6}
---
graphql-engine:
  image: hasura/graphql-engine:v2.24.0
  environment:
    HASURA_GRAPHQL_EE_LICENSE_KEY: <your_license_key>
    HASURA_GRAPHQL_ADMIN_SECRET: <your_secret_key>
```

An [admin secret key](/deployment/securing-graphql-endpoint.mdx) is required to make sure that your GraphQL endpoint and
the Hasura Console are not publicly accessible.

:::info I don't have a license key

If you don't already have a license key and are interested in trying out Hasura Enterprise Edition with Oracle, you can
start a free 30-day trial. Leave the `HASURA_GRAPHQL_EE_LICENSE_KEY` environment variable commented out we'll return to
this in Step 4.

:::

:::caution Secure the admin secret

The `HASURA_GRAPHQL_ADMIN_SECRET` should never be passed from the client to the Hasura GraphQL Engine as it would give
the client full admin rights to your Hasura instance. See [Authentication & Authorization](/auth/overview.mdx) for
information on setting up auth in Hasura.

:::

### Step 3: Run Hasura GraphQL Engine

The following command will create and run the containers in the Docker Compose manifest:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

Check that the containers are running:

```bash
docker ps

CONTAINER ID IMAGE                              ... CREATED STATUS PORTS          ...
097f58433a2b hasura/graphql-engine              ... 1m ago  Up 1m  8080->8080/tcp ...
b0b1aac0508d postgres                           ... 1m ago  Up 1m  5432/tcp ...
3a29aa348999 redis:7                            ... 1m ago  Up 1m  6379/tcp ...
7b5b2ee70ece hasura/graphql-data-connector      ... 1m ago  Up 1m  5005/tcp ..
```

### Step 4: Load the Hasura Console

Open the Hasura Console by navigating to `http://localhost:8080/console`. You will need to input your admin secret key
as set in your Docker Compose file to log in.

:::info 30-day free trial

If you don't already have a license key, you can start a 30-day free trial by clicking the `ENTERPRISE` button in the
top navigation. You can read more details [here](/enterprise/try-hasura-enterprise-edition.mdx).

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/enterprise/Trials_Register_Button.png"
  alt="Enterprise Edition Trial register button"
  width="1146px"
/>

:::

### Step 5: Connect to a Oracle database

From the Console, click the `Data` tab:

<Thumbnail src="/img/getting-started/connect-db-console.png" alt="Connect database" width="1000px" />

Select the Oracle data source driver, enter in a display name for the database and set the JDBC Connection URL for your
Oracle instance.

The JDBC connection URL should look like this:

```yaml {4-6}
jdbc:oracle:thin:<username>/<password>@<hostname>:<port>:<service-name>
```

For example:

```yaml {4-6}
jdbc:oracle:thin:myuser/mypassword@myhost.mycompany.com:oracletest # assuming the default port 1521
jdbc:oracle:thin:myuser/mypassword@myhost.mycompany.com:1234:oracletest # assuming Oracle is running on port 1234
```

Click `Connect Database`.

:::info Ensure your password escapes special characters

Due to the potential variations in drivers, it's crucial to escape special characters used in the password of the
connection string. These include `{ } % & #`. To escape a character, use the appropriate escape sequence based on your
database's driver's documentation.

:::

### Step 6: Track tables and run GraphQL API queries

Now that you have successfully connected your Oracle database to Hasura, you can track tables and use Hasura to
automatically build a full-featured GraphQL API for it.

### Step 7 (optional): Use managed PostgreSQL and Redis instances

The Hasura Enterprise Edition Docker compose files come with containerized open-source versions of PostgreSQL and Redis.

We highly recommend using managed PostgreSQL and Redis instances especially when running in production.

To switch to using your PostgreSQL or Redis instances, set the following environment variables:

```yaml {4-6}
HASURA_GRAPHQL_METADATA_DATABASE_URL HASURA_GRAPHQL_REDIS_URL HASURA_GRAPHQL_RATE_LIMIT_REDIS_URL
```

For example:

```yaml {5-7}
---
graphql-engine:
  image: hasura/graphql-engine:v2.24.0
  environment:
    HASURA_GRAPHQL_METADATA_DATABASE_URL: postgres://postgres:postgrespassword@postgres:5432/postgres
    HASURA_GRAPHQL_REDIS_URL: 'redis://redis:6379'
    HASURA_GRAPHQL_RATE_LIMIT_REDIS_URL: 'redis://redis:6379'
```

### Resources

- [Hasura GraphQL Engine logs](/deployment/logging.mdx) for more details on log types.
- [Docker logs](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/logging) for more details on logging in Docker.
