docs/docs/subscriptions/postgres/livequery/index.mdx, before:

---
description: Manage subscriptions on Postgres with Hasura
sidebar_label: Live queries
keywords:
  - hasura
  - docs
  - postgres
  - subscription
  - live queries
slug: index
---

# Postgres: Live Query Subscriptions

## Introduction

A Live query subscription will return the latest result of the query being made and not necessarily all the individual
events leading up to the result.

By default, updates are delivered to clients every **1 sec**.

See more details on
[subscriptions execution](/subscriptions/postgres/livequery/execution.mdx).

## Convert a query to a subscription

You can turn any query into a subscription by simply replacing `query` with `subscription` as the operation type.

:::info Caveat

Hasura follows the [GraphQL spec](https://graphql.github.io/graphql-spec/June2018/#sec-Single-root-field) which allows
for only one root field in a subscription.

:::

## Use cases

- [Subscribe to the latest value of a particular field](/subscriptions/postgres/livequery/use-cases.mdx#pg-subscribe-field)
- [Subscribe to changes to a table’s entries](/subscriptions/postgres/livequery/use-cases.mdx#pg-subscribe-table)
- [Subscribe to the latest value of some derived data](/subscriptions/postgres/livequery/use-cases.mdx#pg-subscribe-derived)

Commit message:

Docs: Clarify multiple subscriptions. Specifically for AI understanding.
PR-URL: https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine-mono/pull/10162
GitOrigin-RevId: 05351d7b369f5a7b52c5287fdac426885219da9f

docs/docs/subscriptions/postgres/livequery/index.mdx, after:

---
description: Manage subscriptions on Postgres with Hasura
sidebar_label: Live queries
keywords:
  - hasura
  - docs
  - postgres
  - subscription
  - live queries
slug: index
---

# Postgres: Live Query Subscriptions

## Introduction

A Live query subscription will return the latest result of the query being made and not necessarily all the individual
events leading up to the result.

By default, updates are delivered to clients every **1 sec**.

See more details on
[subscriptions execution](/subscriptions/postgres/livequery/execution.mdx).

## Convert a query to a subscription

You can turn any query into a subscription by simply replacing `query` with `subscription` as the operation type.

:::info Single subscription in each query caveat

Hasura follows the [GraphQL spec](https://graphql.github.io/graphql-spec/June2018/#sec-Single-root-field) which allows
for only one root field in a subscription. You also cannot execute multiple separate subscriptions in one query. To
have multiple subscriptions running at the same time they must be in separate queries.

:::

## Use cases

- [Subscribe to the latest value of a particular field](/subscriptions/postgres/livequery/use-cases.mdx#pg-subscribe-field)
- [Subscribe to changes to a table’s entries](/subscriptions/postgres/livequery/use-cases.mdx#pg-subscribe-table)
- [Subscribe to the latest value of some derived data](/subscriptions/postgres/livequery/use-cases.mdx#pg-subscribe-derived)
